---
title: Sketch

layout: post_md
wrapper: true
---
I'd like to introduce you to [Sketch](http://www.bohemiancoding.com/sketch/). Sketch is an app that I have been testing this past week. When I first tried to use it a few months ago, the app seemed to crash a lot, but the latest versions became more and more stable...

Sketch is basicly a vector app, focused on creating user interfaces. A lot of the stuff you normaly would do in Photoshop can also be done in Sketch: vector shapes, (rounded corner) rectangles, triangles, lines, text, ...

A lot of my *Photoshop annoyances™* have been fixed in Sketch.

- **Beautiful text rendering**: Let's face it, text rendering in photoshop *sucks*. Text in Sketch is displayed just the way it would be displayed in the browser. For me, this is huge, because I believe [design is about the content](https://twitter.com/zeldman/statuses/804159148).
- **Copy CSS attributes**: You can use the 'copy css attributes' command to copy a shape's border, background gradient or a text field's font, font-size, font-family, line-height stuff right into the clipboard. To achieve this in Photoshop you would need a plugin like [CSSHat](https://csshat.com), but this stuff comes default with Sketch. Assign a [keyboard shortcut](/en/blog/13/make-paste-and-match-style-the-default-for-the-v-shortcut) to the menu item and you can copy CSS attributes at the speed of light.
- **Save for web**: The save for web feature has been re-tought in Sketch, and it works with drag and drop. Using the save for web in Photoshop seems weird now.
- **Grids**: You can easily setup grids in sketch thanks to the dedicated toolbar button. You can use a regular square grid or you can even use a layout grid that's compatible with the 960grid system. Again, you can do this in Photoshop with a plugin like [GuideGuide](http://guideguide.me) but this stuff is available in Sketch by default.
- **Multiple fills / borders / shadows**: The layer styles window in Photoshop is pretty limited. What if you want would like to add multiple gradient fiels on a certain layer? Or multiple borders? That stuff is not possible without messing around with "container smart objects" as I call them. In Sketch it's perfectly possible to use multple fills, borders, shadows, inner shadows, ... And with the *Copy CSS Attributes* command everything you define is flawlessly copied into CSS in the blink of an eye.

When I first tried Sketch, the app crashed every five minutes when I tried to use it. And now, I must admit the team has come a long way and improved the latest version *a lot*.

I'm going to continue my trial and I'm currently finishing a project with it. So far *really* I like it and I might really consider switching from Photoshop!

If some of the things I described look interesting, I can only encourage you to do so too!